# Preservation Interest Group: Meeting 01

## May 27, 2014 12:00-13:00 EST

## Agenda

1. Introductions: briefly describe your current or near-term digital 
preservation activities/policies to get a sense of how Islandora fits 
into the grand scheme of things.

2. Overview of digital preservation tools and utilities available in 
7.x-1.3.

3. Road mapping

## Attendees

* Nick Ruest (York U)
* Mark Jordan (Simon Fraser University)
* Becky Yoose (Grinnell)
* Chris Jones (Grinnell)
* Mark McFate (Grinnell)
* Julia Bauder (Grinnell)
* Nathan Books (Northern Illinois University)
* Ryan Gjerde (Luther College)
* Sasha Griffin (Luther College)
* Sofia Becerra-Licha (Berklee College of Music Archives)
* Ernie Gillis (Berklee College of Music Archives)
* Donald Moses (UPEI)
* Andrew Berger (Computer History Museum)
* Gloria Gonzalez (UCLA Library)
* Jen Weintraub     (UCLA Library)


## Notes

**Introductions**

Nick Ruest: policy and documentation http://digital.library.yorku.ca/tags/digital-preservation-policy http://digital.library.yorku.ca/tags/preservation-action-plan https://spotdocs.scholarsportal.info/display/ODCC/Policies%2C+procedures%2C+and+best+practices+documents

Becky Yoose: On D6 but will be implementing various preservation modules Will be putting OJS and OCS content into Islandora

Nathan Books: I7 and Fedora, DSpace, Developing formal preservation policy

Ernie Gillis and Sofia Becerra-Licha: No formal digital preservation policy in place -- archives formally established in October 2012 with hiring of first college archivist, so we’re just getting started. New to Islandora/Fedora. Starting by using it to set up repository for master’s capstone projects, which involve a variety of media formats. Media requirements will be heavy in audio and video content. Projects created with extensive multimedia (including audio, video, animation, etc) will be uploaded by students and curated professional staff. 

Mark Jordan: Contentdm to Islandora migration by end of calendar year; will be using FITS and checksum functionality in Islandora for sure
Will be migration our IR to Islandora after the Cdm migration, and this content will be pushed to Archivematica for AIP creation and mngt

Ryan Gjerde and Sasha Griffin: Focusing on digital preservation with regards to records management and born digital records Also marrying this with need for asset management on campus

Andrew Berger: Just starting out with Islandora and digital preservation Highest priority getting control over what we have Lots of large (HD) digital video files (production quality oral history, exhibit, event video, PBS show). Also looking at Archivematica

**Overview**

* [Islandora Checksum](https://github.com/islandora/islandora_checksum): can generate checksums on update or retroactively
* [Islandora Checksum Checker](https://github.com/islandora/islandora_checksum_checker): verifies checksums and reports success/failure. Writes results to Fedora Audit log which then appears in PREMIS. 
* [Islandora PREMIS](https://github.com/islandora/islandora_premis): creates a PREMIS record on the fly from FOXML and TECHMD (from FITS) and Agent from the module’s Admin.
* [Islandora FITS](https://github.com/islandora/islandora_fits): extracts technical metadata from the object using the File Information Tool Set (FITS).
* [Islandora BagIt](https://github.com/islandora/islandora_fits): exports objects/datastreams into bags. Plugin architecture to create custom bags.

**Roadmap**

Checksum checker

* check fits checksum
* check objects outside islandora - in bags?
* check objects upon ingest that has pre-existing checksums

PREMIS

*more rights metadata sources -- we just do dc.rights now derivative creation events

FITS

* Format identification

BagIt

* Batch ingest/import from bags
* External referrals to archival objects in Bag
* Use manifest to check the checksum from the manifest with the checksum generated by Islandora Checksum or FITS
* Provide a way to feed “plugin” parameters into Drush or in some other way, to allow for multiple options in Bags

PDF Solution Pack

* Create PDF/A upon ingest

Utilize Archivematica Format Policy registry (REST api)

* Be a client/consume that info
* Remove specifics of preservation master derivative creation from each solution pack, and instead use the Archivematica  format policy registry to define how those derivatives are created

**Questions/Comments**

Not sure if good spot for this, but just to handle user questions and comments. Question I have is, if you're uploading "non archival quality" file (mp4 videos or mp3 audio), can part of the roadmap for audio / video solution packs be to sniff out if the web player (like jwplayer) actually play back the format so you don't have to transcode it?
